---
title: "Love's Unrelenting Gravity"
excerpt: "Letting Myself Fall in Love Again (with `emacs` this time)"
date: 2017-12-25
toc: false
---

I knew as soon as the winter holiday arrived that I would do something to win
myself over again. I've become really lazy during the semester. I lost a lot of
what made me me. I used a Mac and used the GUI and didn't do enough hardcore
hacking in a terminal like I used to. Now's the time to return to what I love.
I'm typing this in an `emacs` window (`evil-mode` of course). It's `spacemacs` to be
precise. That's still sort of lazy, but I figure that I can always undo this and
start from scratch when I'm ready to do so.

So about `emacs`, I've totally fallen in love with it. It's everything vim has but
package management seems more polished. All around, it seems more flexible and
extensible. I'm still going to be using vim bindings, for the foreseeable
future. I'm going to learn `emacs` bindings too, cuz that's a required skill. I'll
make my final judgment on the bindings then.

I'm planning on doing a lot this winter break. For one, I'm going to take a
winter class in Philosophy, so there goes a solid chunk of my time. But in my
free time, I'm going to learn all there is on Python (I'm taking the course on
Udemy), I'm going to set up and start learning LaTeX, and I'm going to make my
first GUI application. I know that sounds like a lot. Maybe it is. Maybe I'm
still doing this thing where I set unreasonable goals for myself. Or maybe I'll
muster up enough determination to get through it. Only time will tell.

But all the familiar surges of joy I got when I first started learning vim have
come back full force, and I'm happy to be where I am again. It feels like home.

:wq
