---
title: "Active vs Passive Euthanasia"
excerpt: "Article I"
---

# 17 January 2018 Homework Notes

## Article I: Rachels - Active vs Passive Euthanasia

James Rachels argues that `no moral difference between active and passive euthanasia is defensible.` In other words, he sets out to prove why there there are no convincing arguments that prove why intentionally letting someone die is different to intentionally killing them.

One example of the AMA's stance is that it is ethical, consent granted, to let someone die by removing them from life support, but it is not ethical, regardless of circumstances, that a lethal injection should be administered to kill a patient.

Rachels' rebuttal is as follows: Suppose that there is a patient of an incurable cancer of the throat and that this patient is in extreme suffering. The AMA's praxis allows for the doctor (upon consent of the patient and their family) to stop prolonging the inevitable death by means of ending treatment, but that's as far as the AMA's guidelines allow the doctor to act. The patient will still suffer every second until they die. In this case, Rachels argues, is it not the moral action to end the person's life sooner? Isn't it more ethical to end the person's life by lethal injection such that suffering is minimized?


# 17 January 2018 Class Discussion

## Article I: Rachels - Active vs Passive Euthanasia

###  Sanctity of Life

The sanctity of life is the principle that "life is sacred." Life has an utmost, fundamental value, and life is never to be destroyed.

###  Humanitarian Motivation

The motivation to alleviate or prevent suffering. If you have the choice between suffering for a month and then dying, and receiving a lethal injection and then dying instantly, the logical choice is to remove as much suffering as possible. Active euthanasia is the moral option under these conditions. `First Argument`

  
###  Passive Euthanasia

Allowing a natural course of events co unfold which brings about death For example, a patient is taken off of life support.

###  Active Euthanasia

Intervening in the natural course of events to bring about death. For example, a lethal injection is implemented.


Allowing a natural course of events to unfold and bring about death. For example, take a person allergic to peanuts. 

### The American Medical Association

The AMA claims that there is a moral difference between active and passive killing.


Viewing the conflict from virtue ethics, if passive killing results in a benefit to you, then it seems that both active and passive killing converge to 

