---
title: "Care Ethics"
excerpt: "Article  G"
---

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
**Table of Contents**

- [8 January 2018 Classwork Notes](#8-January-2018-classwork-notes)
    - [Article G: Landau - "Feminist Ethics"](#article-g-landau---feminist-ethics)
        - [Review](#review)
        - [Care Ethics](#care-ethics)
            - [Article G p280](#article-g-p280)
        - [Perfect strangers Objection](#perfect-strangers-objection)
            - [Care Ethics](#care-ethics-1)
        - [Examples](#examples)
        - [Alternate Perspectives](#alternate-perspectives)
            - [Virtues](#virtues)
- [Review for Exam](#review-for-exam)
<<<<<<< HEAD
    - [-](#-)
    - [Kantian Moral Theory p175](#kantian-moral-theory-p175)
=======
    - [Kantian Moral Theory p175](#Kantian-moral-theory-p175)
>>>>>>> 96e611ce8ab7453cc03383aa93396f15d39f4267
    - [Care Ethics](#care-ethics-2)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->


# 8 January 2018 Classwork Notes

## Article G: Landau - "Feminist Ethics"


### Review

KMT seems to have its great basis in consent, which we can reinterpret as something along the lines of independence, and personal human rights.

Care ethics, by contrast, views morality through the lens of relationships. 

* Our connections to those we have relationships with is the fundamental basis of morality.
* morality or moral obligation stems from personal connections between people.

We should view or moral obligations from the perspective of a mother. Parents often sacrifice their own well being to further the well-being of their children.

### Care Ethics

Care Ethics equates care with moral correctness. But because care ethics is partial, there's nothing stopping you from preferring your singular child in the trolley problem over the 5 others that you would save. It's the right thing to do because of the relationship that you are preserving.

#### Article G p280

> We should think of a loving mother's care for her children as a model for all moral behavior.

For us to act morally, we must sometimes act partially. This is because relationships require partiality.

### Perfect strangers Objection

If you have two perfect strangers, one of which you can sacrifice for another to live, what metrics do you have do decide?

Initially care ethics restricted the moral community too far to be accepting of strangers, then, care ethicists extended the treat-them-like-your-child principle to even perfect strangers.

* The moral decision is the one that you would take for your own child.
* Prefer people with whom you have relationships before those with whom you have no relationships.

The right thing to do is the caring thing to do and what the caring thing to do will depend on the relationship. Mother to child relationship, husband to wife, co-worker to co-worker, and friend to friend are all some examples of the relationships of people.

> So maybe we require 3 or more dimensions. I think the first two are diametrically linked, so there may not be any use distinguishing between them. Also, it seems like the first 3 are binary, But I am uncertain. Maybe there is a hypothetical moral theory that would be consequentialist except in certain circumstances in which case it wouldn't be at the extreme

#### Care Ethics

    Consequentialism <-X------------------------------> Deontology               

> Care ethics cares about the results of actions rather than a property of the act. The "caring option" is based on results not a property of the action.
    
    Absolutism       <------------------------------X-> Relativism

> The same act can be right or wrong depending on the circumstances.

    General Welfare  <---------------X----------------> Personal Autonomy

> I put it here in the middle because you can violate, let's say, a child's autonomy, which diverts it away from the individual and towards society. Also, you as a parent are morally obligated to make some sacrifices for your child.

    Indescriminatory <------------------------------X-> Preferential

> This one should be fairly self evident. This theory allows for you to prefer your own child or a person of greater importance in a relationship over an equal moral agent with no relationship to you.


### Examples

Restricting the autonomy of a child (forcing them to eat vegetables) is done out of care, so it is moral. It's the best thing for them. KMT would say that's immoral. KMT gives everyone autonomy and independence, and thus lays out a very individualist viewpoint. In examples of justified moral authority, where doing something violates autonomy, but ultimately benefits the person whose autonomy was compromised. By contrast utilitarianism, virtue ethics and care ethics.

### Alternate Perspectives

We can frame care ethics as a specific version of care ethics that specializes in virtues that pertain to care. The role model in this circumstance should be our mother.

#### Virtues

 * Nurturing
 * Selflessness
 * Empathy
 * Loyalty
 * Courage
 * Honesty
 * Consideration 
 * Patience


# Review for Exam

| Partial          | Impartial            |
|------------------|----------------------|
| Care Ethics (CE) | Utilitarianism (UT)  |
| Virtue Ethics    | Kantian Moral Theory |

UT `maximize overall utility for everyone involved`

KMT `Always treat another person as an ends but never as a mere means.`

VE `The moral action is the action a good person would take.`

CE `The moral action is the action a mother would take. A mother prefers her children to others etc.`

Moral Communities

#### Utilitarianism 

Can it suffer? If so, it's a part of the moral community. There are also traits such as abstract and mathematical reasoning that supposes one moral entity over another - a moral hierarchy. Different species are treated differently because they all have different abilities, and this their suffering is more or less significant. It allows for animals to be given consideration due to their ability to suffer, but the more complex the animal, the higher they rank in the moral hierarchy.

#### Kantian Moral Theory p175

Free will is the ultimate "membership card." As long as we determine that an animal has autonomy, then the principle of humanity would extend to it.

#### Care Ethics

If we had a relationship with an animal then we can treat the animal as a member of the moral community.


{% comment %}
Don't forget to do <SAC><spc>markdown-toc-refresh-toc<cr>
{% endcomment %}
