---
title: "Virtue Ethics"
excerpt: "Articles E and F"
---

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
**Table of Contents**

- [9 January 2018 Homework Notes](#9-january-2018-homework-notes)
    - [Article E: Rauhut - "Virtue-Based Theories of Ethics" and Article F: Driver - "Virtue Ethics"](#article-e-rauhut---virtue-based-theories-of-ethics-and-article-f-driver---virtue-ethics)
        - [Advantages of Virtue Ethics](#advantages-of-virtue-ethics)
        - [Disadvantages of Virtue Ethics](#disadvantages-of-virtue-ethics)
- [Classwork Notes](#classwork-notes)
    - [The Principle of Humanity (Article C p174)](#the-principle-of-humanity-article-c-p174)
    - [Virtue Ethics](#virtue-ethics)
    - [Virtues and Vices](#virtues-and-vices)
    - [Examples](#examples)
    - [Article F (p146)](#article-f-p146)
    - [Problems with](#problems-with)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->

# 9 January 2018 Homework Notes

## Article E: Rauhut - "Virtue-Based Theories of Ethics" and Article F: Driver - "Virtue Ethics"

Both Utilitarianism (consequentialism) and Kantianism (Deontology) try to develop universal criteria for categorizing the morality of an action over its alternatives. Virtue ethics doesn't. Virtue ethics replaces the "what should I do?" with "what sort of person should I be?" According to virtue ethics, you should take the action that most improves your character.

Nicomachean Ethics, a moral theory put forth by Aristotle, sees the moral actions as a mean between the extremes of character. For example, generosity is the mean between wastefulness and selfishness. There are extremes of emotion that lead us to immoral acts, but having a well meaned character leads to the most moral outcomes.

Since this theory requires us to have expertise on what being a pure character looks like, it relies in part on role models to supply the requisite expertise and provide a foundation for what resolution should come for moral questions.

{% comment %}

              objective / rule based
                         *
             1           |             2
                         |
                         |
                         |
    consequentialism     |           deontology
            *---------------------------*
                         |
                         |
                         |
                         |
                         3
                         *
                    subjective

                 1) Utilitarianism consequentialist and objective.
                 2) Kantianism is deontological and subjective.
                 3) Virtue Ethics

{% endcomment %}

So how does a figure like Robin Hood fare when viewed from the virtue-ethics microscope? As it turns out, quite well. However, when using virtue ethics to examine the actions undertaken, we need some more information about where all of the motivations come from for our application. Portrayals of Robin Hood depict him having a sense of loyalty to King Richard that drives him from King John. He is also compassionate towards poor people. He doesn't seem so steal from the rich in order to inflict harm, but rather only as a means to helping the poor.

### Advantages of Virtue Ethics

The advantages of Virtue Ethics come from the lack of reliance on strict general rules. Instead, it relies on being a good person, and building habits that are conducive to a productive society. The virtue ethicist doesn't do something because it's their duty (deontology) or because it maximizes general welfare, but rather because it's something a good person would do.

### Disadvantages of Virtue Ethics

Virtue ethics is incomplete because it asks what a good person would do but doesn't ask what's right. The reason why that is a limitation is that it relies too heavily on the role model. Who is the perfectly virtuous person? Whose behavior should we emulate?


# Classwork Notes

### The Principle of Utility (Article A p80)

In Utilitarianism, the operative assumption is that we want to maximize utility for  everyone. `Take the action that has the best consequences for everyone.`

### The Principle of Humanity (Article C p174)
In Kantianism, what is moral or immoral depends on whether or not you defy the agency of another in the process of taking that action.

These have a few traits in common. They both have defining principles that determine what is absolutely right or wrong. They are both impartial, they treat everyone equally and don't give preferential treatment to some person or group.

### Virtue Ethics

By contrast virtue ethics focused on the questions "What should I do?" with "What kind of person should I try to be?

An example involving cheating. Let's say there's a person that's going into a test with little confidence because they didn't study nearly long enough. A virtue ethicist, would say "I don't want to be the kind of person that relies on cheating to be successful. I don't want to be a cheater."

Virtue ethics allows us prefer people whose character we're familiar with. We're a lot less lenient on people who we don't know and even less lenient on those who we know to be bad.

It both involves judging the actions of others based on the characteristics they have, and asking ourselves what kind of person we want to be.

### Virtues and Vices

Virtues are personality traits that underlie habitual action. Honest as a virtue, as a personality trait, results in honest actions. Good personality traits will result in good actions; Bad personality traits dishonesty. When we judge people based on their actions, we need to determine what kind of person they are, before we can determine whether their action was good or bad. Harold Donnelly was only justified in enacting euthanasia if he was a good person who in the past acted compassionately, or is presently acting compassionately.


### Examples

| Virtue or Vice | Example        | Assessment |
|----------------|----------------|------------|
| Compassion     | Robin hood     | Moral      |
| Rationality    | Truman Example | Moral      |
| Impulsiveness  | Abortion       | Immoral    |
| Generosity     | Philanthropy   | Moral      |
| Compassion     | Euthanasia     | Moral      |

As you can see the concern is placed on the actual motivations behind your actions and not their results. You can say that if Truman acted out of impulse, then his deployment of the atomic bomb was immoral. But if instead, you determined that he acted out of deep consideration with pure motives to spare as many people as possible. then it should be determined that he acted rationally. You have to look at the subject's personality, and immediate motivation before deciding whether the action is right or wrong.

### Article F (p146)

`Act evaluation is to be understood in terms of character evaluation`

A moral exemplar is a person who exemplifies moral character very well, or someone who serves as a great guiding example of moral character and virtue.

Virtues serve the goal of "living well," and part of living well is a matter of having healthy relationships, and personal relationships require that we act partially. Virtue ethics allows us to prefer to help our child with surgery (at a cost of 20,000 dollars) instead of giving it to the 100 lives you could have saved. Any example where you can say, "I wouldn't allow this for a stranger, but I do make an exception for my friend."

When we look at a psychopath who is incapable of empathy, they are allowed to "be who they want to be."

### Problems with Virtue Ethics

If societies decide on moral exemplars that are not good, (Hitler, Stalin etc.) then you can justify some actions that are immoral. You can interpret the system such that a lot of its power is held strongly by the moral exemplar.

UT - Compassion is the Ultimate standard

KMT - Concern for respecting humanity

{% comment %}
Don't forget to do <spc><spc>markdown-toc-refresh-toc<cr>
{% endcomment %}
