---
title: "Moral Considerations for Terrorism"
excerpt: "Article  K: McPherson"
---

# 22 Jan Class Discussion

## Article K: McPherson - "Is Terrorism Distinctively Wrong?"

### Important Definitions

Conventional War
:    States at war; in particular the militaries (combatants) aggress upon one another.

Non-Combatants
:    persons not involved in the militaries or states 

Terrorism
:    killing by non-state powers, not a part of a military, where civilians are the intended target

### Dominant View

The dominant view's underlying intuition is that terrorism has a "deeper" wrongness to it than war or terrorism is "Fundamentally wrong" or "wrong by its very nature" or "unconditionally wrong."

By contrast, the dominant view doesn't claim that conventional war is wrong by its very nature: it *can* be morally permissible, and it can also be morally objectionable. The moral status, in the eyes of the dominant view, is *Circumstantial*.

### McPherson's Objection

McPherson is not arguing that we should have a positive moral attitude about terrorism, but rather that we should think of terrorism in the same terms that we think of war.

As an objection to the dominant view, McPherson mentions that the majority of the victims of war are civilians.

> What about wars of attrition? What about wars where supply lines for both the military and civilian survival are indiscriminately bombed? How do we view that morally? Is bombing a supply line that feeds civilians as well as the military ethical considering that those people can now not get any food, and may well starve to death.


* Both war and terrorism use violence

* Both war and terrorism both have Non-Combatant Victims

* Both acts of terrorism (i.e. Truman example) and wars can be justified by a morally good motivation or intention.

### Conditions to Justify War and Terrorism
* just cause
* Optimal balance of consequences
* responsive / defensive
* fighting for human rights

It is ethical to engage in war with a country that is committing an act of genocide, for example, because this act is in defense of human rights.

#### The African National Congress

The African National Congress was a political organization that grew out of Apartheid era South Africa. It was violent, political, and killed civilians. But, since that violence was a last resort, and the violence was defensive in nature, it must be seen as a justified terrorist organization.

### Meta

Maybe the article can be framed in a different way that makes it seem more appropriate to the goals it actually achieves. For example, you can say that terrorism and war are more similar than dissimilar, thus, we must assess both acts of violence using the same metrics. This seems to be because there is little reason to change your view on the vast majority of cases of terrorism that we are accustomed to. Instead, it provides us with a new way too look at war and the behavior of states and the people that prop them up.

> I don't think that just being an anomaly disqualifies that from moral consideration. 

> Accusing something of being terrorism is kind of like begging the question. It says that's terrorism, and terrorism is bad so that's bad. There is no independent thought allocated to how ethical the individual acts.

> Let's say that the ANC is being viewed as it was defined up until 2008 by US foreign policy. Since the ANC is a terrorist organization, then it is bad because all terrorism is bad. That's just fallacious
