---
title: "Kant and His Ethics"
excerpt: "Articles C and D"
---

# 8 January 2018 Homework Notes

## Article C: Landau - The Kantian Perspective

From [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kantianism):

The Formulations of the Categorical Imperative:

1) Act only according to that maxim whereby you can at the same time will that it should become a universal law.

2) Act in such a way that you treat humanity, whether in your own person or in the person of any other, never merely as a means to an end, but always at the same time as an end.

3) Therefore, every rational being must so act as if he were through his maxim always a legislating member in the universal kingdom of ends.

### Universalizability

We didn't end up going over this in class, but what I took from the reading is that Kant's formulations are based on the notion that any rule about morality should be applied in every situation. If everyone always lied to get a job, the consequences would disqualify it from being a sound principle to start with.

### Ends vs Means

Kant defined using someone as an ends to their means as perpetually respecting their humanity, autonomy and consent throughout all of your interactions with them. If you get a plumber to fix your leaky pipe and then pay them, the act is moral because they consented to working on the condition that they get paid. Their consent was preserved the entire time, but if you use a plumber merely as a tool and do not have regards for what they want, you have acted immorally.

### Principle of Humanity
`Always treat a human being (yourself included) as an end, and never as a mere means.`

Never *use* people without their consent. Every morally correct act requires the consent of the person being used as a means. Or acknowledging them as an ends, but not *just* using them as a means. That's the Kantian perspective that disqualifies slavery as moral. Human dignity is never to be violated.

Humans (or any persons) have priceless value and cannot be subjugated to merely being and instrument for someone else's ends.

> KMT prefers to give people the facts because it wants to defer the decision making process to the individual. It maximizes personal autonomy and human rights whereas UT maximizes utility, without respect to autonomy or rights.

### Policies Under Different Systems

| Policy          | Utilitarianism | Kantianism  |
|-----------------|----------------|-------------|
| Forced taxation | Approves       | Disapproves |
| Draft           | Approves       | Disapproves |
| Robin Hood      | Approves       | Disapproves |

In all of the previous examples, Kantianism underscores consent as the ultimate underlying moral principle. If you do something without the involved person's consent, you are acting immorally.

There is a bank teller example, where you do use someone as a mere means: a bank teller isn't necessarily given the same consideration as you would give to e.g. a family member. They are generally used purely as an instrument, but in this case, the bank teller indirectly consents by means of employment in the banking firm. Even though they seem to be used as a mere means at first glance, in fact there is an implicit designation of consent.

### Guiding themes of KMT

  1) Autonomy or Human Dignity

Autonomy is held sacredly by KMT. If an action violates consent, it it wrong. The same action is *always* the moral action. There is no deviation based on circumstances. Rape is *always* wrong, no matter what is forgone as a result. The strength of this is it forbids things that are clearly deplorable. The downside is that its inflexibility makes it impossible for it to adapt to certain new circumstances.


Kantianism is completely rigid and inflexible. The same action is always considered right regardless of circumstances.

In KMT, Lying is always wrong because it manipulates the person who was lied to. It always defies the consent of the person being lied to or deceived.

### KMT's view on Animals

Animals, to Kant in particular, did not have free will, and were entirely subject to instincts and passions and thus non-human animals did not deserve any of the moral considerations that are afforded to humans. However, in Kantian theory, if it can be proven that an animal has free will, then it surely has a component of humanity that makes it the moral equal of a human. On the other hand, KMT has a binary designation to humanity.
