---
title: "Utilitarianism and its Limitations"
excerpt: "Articles A and B"
---

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
**Table of Contents**

- [3 January 2018 Homework Notes](#3-january-2018-homework-notes)
    - [Article A : Rachels - Utilitarianism](#article-a--rachels---utilitarianism)
    - [Article B: Pojman - Strengths and Weaknesses of Utilitarianism](#article-b-pojman---strengths-and-weaknesses-of-utilitarianism)
        - [Act Utilitarianism vs Rule Utilitarianism](#act-utilitarianism-vs-rule-utilitarianism)
        - [Problem 1: The No-Rest Objection](#problem-1-the-no-rest-objection)
        - [Problem 2: The Absurd Implications Objection (p133)](#problem-2-the-absurd-implications-objection-p133)
        - [Problem 3: The Integrity Objection (p134)](#problem-3-the-integrity-objection-p134)
        - [Problem 4: The Justice Objection (p135)](#problem-4-the-justice-objection-p135)
- [3 January 2018 Class Notes](#3-january-2018-class-notes)
    - [Utilitarianism](#utilitarianism)
    - [In other words, take the action that maximizes utility.](#in-other-words-take-the-action-that-maximizes-utility)
        - [What is utility?](#what-is-utility)
        - [How is this different from morality at the time?](#how-is-this-different-from-morality-at-the-time)
    - [Utilitarianism and Non Human Animals](#utilitarianism-and-non-human-animals)
    - [Utilitarianism and Abortion](#utilitarianism-and-abortion)
    - [Problems With Utilitarianism](#problems-with-utilitarianism)
        - [Article B - The Absurd Implications Objection](#article-b---the-absurd-implications-objection)
        - [Article B - The Injustice Implication](#article-b---the-injustice-implication)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->

# 3 January 2018 Homework Notes

## Article A : Rachels - Utilitarianism

Utilitarianism is a moral theory that states the right moral choice is the one that brings about the most happiness, comfort, etc. which was called Utility. This theory was popularized by Jeremy Bentham in the late 1700s and early 1800s and again by *"Utilitarianism"* in 1861 by one of Bentham's closest followers John Stuart Mill.

> *Aside* But what if short term happiness brings about long term suffering? How do we know what is utilitarian in the short term doesn't end up counterproductive in the long term?

Utilitarianism justifies mercy killing, which minimizes long term disutility at the cost of amplifying short term disutility in such a way that short term disutility is less than long term disutility.

Vegetarianism has its basis in utilitarian thought: on the topic of non human animals, vegetarians see it as unjustified suffering to create demand for living conditions that cause animals to suffer

## Article B: Pojman - Strengths and Weaknesses of Utilitarianism

### Act Utilitarianism vs Rule Utilitarianism

Act Utilitarianism determines that `an act is right if and only if it results in as much good as any available alternative.`

That means that if a moral dilemma is present, we should follow the path that maximizes happiness in the most efficient way. But Richard Brandt has a problem with act utilitarianism. His criticism is the following: If you employ someone to mow your lawn, an act utilitarian would only pay that person if the same money could not be used to make someone else more happy.

> **Aside** maybe I'm missing something, but it seems like there's an extra variable in the mix that makes it seem like there is a problem here when it's really not. You made a promise to someone. The act seems to me not the problem of making someone else more happy with the same money, it's whether you break your promise to the employer. If you knew that your money could have best been utilized elsewhere, then why did you have someone mow your lawn in the first place?

Rule Utilitarianism, by contrast, determines that `an act is right if and only if that act, when universalized to all members of society, would net that society more utility than any viable alternative.`

### Problem 1: The No-Rest Objection

**Problem:** Why is a utilitarian sleeping when they could be maximizing utility some other way?

**Response:** The rebuttal is that if you were to apply that for the average person, utility would decrease in a society because everyone is displacing the utility of sleep, and leisure. This rest is necessary for people to remain sane, and able to do more good.

### Problem 2: The Absurd Implications Objection (p133)

**P:** If lying and truth telling produce the same amount of happiness, the two are equal in the eyes of the utilitarian, but intuitively that feels wrong.

**R:** We were only socialized to value truth telling as opposed to lying, there is nothing intrinsic or objective about those outcomes. Providing true information is usually preferred in the rule-ut guidelines because it allows people to make informed decisions, but white lies and lying to prevent harm are also intuitive.

### Problem 3: The Integrity Objection (p134)

**P:** How can utilitarianism be appropriate when it makes us violate are deepest held principles? Utilitarianism makes us violate our own values (such as the principle that life is not to be destroyed, or that killing innocent people is immoral) to maximize utility.

**R:** Well, some violation, the author argues, ones principles might be necessary to live a moral life and maximize utility.

### Problem 4: The Justice Objection (p135)

**P:** If killing someone completely innocent spares the lives of many more, does that mean we should just go around killing the healthy and then saving multiple lives each with organs recovered from those healthy people? Isn't that the lesser of the two evils?

**R:** You can't disqualify killing the innocent outright. How many lives would it take? Would you kill one innocent person to save 5 as with redistributing organs? Probably not, but what about 50 lives? What about 500? At some point, the author alleges, the scales tip.

> I feel like there is something biased about the `rip apart a man and give 5 functioning organs to 5 people who need it` example. I think that a part of why it feels unjust comes from the brutality of it. If it were reframed as a trolley problem, I would be far less hesitant to spare the innocent.


# 3 January 2018 Class Notes

## Utilitarianism

The Principle of Utility (p80 Article A) requires that whenever we have a choice between alternative actions or social policies, we most choose the one that has the best overall consequences for everyone concerned.

## In other words, take the action that maximizes utility.

### What is utility?

In short, utility is any good consequence. Examples are happiness, well-being, pleasure, comfort, enjoyment etc. Its opposite is disutility. sadness, displeasure, discomfort, etc.  The Truman Example, killing Hitler. Death Penalty, are examples that claim that the utility exceeds the disutility.

#### Taxation

| Utility 	| Disutility 	|
|:-------------:|:-------------:|
| Public safety | Sacrifices immediate autonomy|

### How is this different from moral systems of the time?

Morality in the 1700s and 1800s was based in religious doctrine. For example *Thou shall not kill.* A consequence of that is that this sort of morality is absolutist. It prohibits killing outright. Utilitarianism has no such absolute prohibition. Instead, it says "Don't kill except in circumstances where killing prevents more harm to humans." In other words, "Kill only when the utility of doing so exceeds the disutility of doing so."

Another example is the question should we consume human flesh (already dead) under sufficiently dire circumstances. Do we sacrifice condemnation of cannibalism if it means we can prevent a death? Are we a second - hand murderer if we let the child (that we would have to feed flesh to) die? That is the [Donner Party](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donner_Party) question.

So, in conclusion, Utilitarianism suggests that moral actions are flexible. (p81 Article A) Actions that are more often than not immoral can be morally justified under certain circumstances.

## Utilitarianism and Non Human Animals

Humans are undeniably a part of the moral community. An inanimate object is undeniably not a part of the moral community. In the mind of the utilitarian, since animals can suffer, they must be a part of the moral community.

## Utilitarianism and Abortion
A utilitarian perspective on what is right varies depending on circumstance. On the condition that a fetus is 10 days old, it has no ability to suffer, thus abortion is justified. But on the condition that a fetus is 8 months old, it is capable of suffering, so it's not moral to abort it. The 10 day old fetus is not sentient, but the 8 month old fetus is sentient. There is no outright condemnation of any action.

That's not to say that there is no difference between non Human animals and humans. The "superior" psychological capacities of humans mean that humans should get preferential treatment. Such superior psychological capacities include abstract mathematics and abstract reasoning.

| Moral Hierarchy |
| :-------:	|
| Humans 	|
| Apes	 	|
| Cats and Dogs |
| Mice 		|
| Ant 		|

## Problems With Utilitarianism

### Article B - The Absurd Implications Objection

This objection supposes that if two given actions produce 100 hedons (units of happiness), then a utilitarian deems them to be equivalent. But if one of those actions is telling the truth, and the other being telling a lie, then it seems impossible to your impulse that the two could be equal.

### Article B - The Injustice Implication

This objection frames a situation where doing harm to a completely innocent person maximizes utility. A utilitarian sees injustice as

> Are all consequentialisms blind to justice? I undertook a little bit of research on Utilitarianism and found that it is considered a consequentialist moral theory. The opposite is something like Kantianism, which is deontological, meaning it sees the morality as intrinsic to the act, not the consequences.
