---
title: "Animal Liberation"
excerpt: "Article  J: Singer"
---

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
**Table of Contents**

- [18 Jan Class Discussion](#18-jan-class-discussion)
    - [Article J: Singer - "Animal Liberation"](#article-j-singer---animal-liberation)
        - [Singer's arguments for Animal liberation](#singers-arguments-for-animal-liberation)
            - [Moral Progression](#moral-progression)
            - [The Arbitrary Bias Argument](#the-arbitrary-bias-argument)
            - [Life's Importance](#lifes-importance)
            - [The Consistency Argument](#the-consistency-argument)
        - [Potential Objections to Singer](#potential-objections-to-singer)
            - [Objection from Nature](#objection-from-nature)
            - [Kantian Objection](#kantian-objection)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->


# 18 Jan Class Discussion

## Article J: Singer - "Animal Liberation"

### Singer's arguments for Animal liberation

| Connecting themes                               |
|-------------------------------------------------|
| The sanctity of life                            |
| The moral unimportance of species membership    |
| The moral importance of psychological capacities |

#### Moral Progression

Singer views the process of human development as trending towards higher levels of moral achievement.

#### The Arbitrary Bias Argument

Speciesism
:    the discriminatory attitude or view that one's own species is more important than other species, or the view that the members of one's own species are more morally important than the members of other species. 

Sexism
:    the discriminatory attitude or view that people of one's own sex are more important than, or superior to, people of other sexes.

Racism
:    the discriminatory attitude or view that people of one's members of one's own race are more important tan, or superior to members of another race.

The Principle of Equality
:    equal right to humane treatment or equal `consideration`, should be granted to all sentient beings.


Singer views any partitioning of the moral community on the basis of species, race, and sex as arbitrary. The only thing that matters in this view is the ability the being has the ability to suffer. Consent to suffering isn't the operative claim. It doesn't matter if one is unable to consent. For example, if a dog is brutally assaulted without consent and a human is brutally assaulted without consent. We can say that the human *could* possibly consent to that suffering, but merely being able to 

The preference for members of one's own species, which speciesism is based on, is an *arbitrary bias.*

An analogy follows: the preference for members of one's own sex, which sexism is based on, is an arbitrary bias. Additionally, the preference cor members of one's own race, which racism is based on, is an arbitrary bias. (p289)

He's not saying that the lives of non human animals are the total equals as the lives of humans. He's just saying that all sentient beings are worthy of moral consideration and thus our partitioning of the moral community can only be determined psychological capacity. Communication skills, abstract reasoning, thinking of the future, etc. is the only rational, non arbitrary distinguishing factor between sentient beings.

> The objections to racism and sexism apply equally to speciesism (p287) 

#### Life's Importance

| Value | Being                             |
|------:|-----------------------------------|
| x     | Sapient being                     |
| x-1   | Less psychologically capable being |
| x-2   |                                   |
| x-3   |                                   |
| x-4   | Mice                              |

#### The Consistency Argument

In Singer's argument to consistency, to think that it is wrong to abuse disabled humans but *not* think it's wrong to abuse animals with comparable psychological capabilities. is contradictory and based on arbitrary bias.

### Potential Objections to Singer

#### Objection from Nature

Our preferences for humans over non humans is natural and instinctive and it an effect of natural selection

> #### My objection to this claim
> Just because something is natural or instinctive doesn't mean we shouldn't question it, and change our habits when we discover an inconsistency in our ways.
> You can argue that tribalism is "natural" and you can argue that acting violently is "natural." You can argue that we evolved that way because it was necessary for survival, but we're not struggling to survive in the same ways that we were 5 or 10 or 20 or 100 thousand years ago. In fact, it is a privilege for us to be able to ask these sorts of questions. There are people in the world who don't have that choice. So why don't we accept that our material conditions allow us to achieve something more moral?
> Just because something is natural doesn't make it right or moral or exempt it from being objectionable. 
> In order to achieve a greater stage of moral development, we must question even the things that come most naturally to us.

#### Kantian Objection

Singer's entire view of the moral community is to narrowly focused on sentience and suffering, that is, Singer's view is too utilitarian.

Kant defines moral community membership in terms of autonomy. Singer never once considers that animals don't have free will or autonomy.
