---
title: "Moral Considerations for Abortion"
excerpt: "Article  H"
---

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->
**Table of Contents**

- [16 Jan Class Discussion](#16-jan-class-discussion)
    - [Article H: Warren - "On the Moral and Legal Status of Abortion"](#article-h-warren---on-the-moral-and-legal-status-of-abortion)
        - [Right to Privacy](#right-to-privacy)
        - [How do we decide this objectively?](#how-do-we-decide-this-objectively)
        - [Negative Argument](#negative-argument)
        - [Positive Argument](#positive-argument)
        - [Criticisms](#criticisms)
            - [Warren fails to distinguish between different stages of development](#warren-fails-to-distinguish-between-different-stages-of-development)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->


# 16 Jan Class Discussion

When is killing morally justified or morally permissible?

* Human fetus
* killing vs "letting die"
* killing and abusing animals
* killing in war and terrorism

## Article H: Warren - "On the Moral and Legal Status of Abortion"

### Right to Privacy
Making your own "life Decisions," decisions that you and only you have the righ to make over your own life.

The Right to Privacy comes into conflict with The Right to Life. Which right comes first?

When does a fetus become a member of the moral community?



### How do we decide this objectively?

* Extraterrestrial being
    * held in captivity - limits right to freedom and autonomy
    * baused - infringes on right to non-abuse
    * killed - infringes on right to life
* Artificial Intelligence
* Artificial Organism

### Negative Argument

This is where she critcizes the traditional anti-abortion argument.
She refutes the "begging the question" claim that

> (1) it is wrong to kill innocent human beings

> (2) fetuses are innocent human beings

> (3) it is wrong to kill fetuses

Since the claim that fetuses are human beings is not *independently assessed for validity,* the second premise is unproven and thus the claim is not necessarily true.

| members of the moral community | contains human DNA    |
|--------------------------------|-----------------------|
| some himans                    | clone?                |
| healthy neurotypical humans    | permanent coma victim |
| some nonhuman animals          |                       |

Just because something hads human DNA doesn't necessarily make it human.

### Positive Argument

Warren: A fetus is never a member of the moral community, regardless of the stage of fetal development. Warren rejects that merely posessing human DNA is the constitution for humanity. Instead, Warren offers up the following criterion

* Ability to feel pain
* Ability to reason
* undertakes self-motivated activity
* Ability to communicate
* Self-Awareness

Warren claims that at minimum 
1-3 is enough to constitute humanity

Warren: If you think that a fetus is a human, then why does a cow or a pig not get the same rights when in fact they meet the same criteria?

Well, a fetus has the potential to be a person, and that's what makes it different.

Warren: even if they have that right, that right could not possibly outway, the already developed right to self-determination.

Rights have different values. The right to life outweighs the right to privacy.

Warren is also leaving out the motivations and other consideratons

-----

### Criticisms

#### Warren fails to distinguish between different stages of development

* Leaves out motivations
* heartbeoat
* viability
* expert opinion
    * evidence concerning the psycology of the fetus.
* by this logic (At every single stage of fetal development...), killing a fetus minutes after birth is permissible
