---
title: "Brandism"
---

brandism
:    arbitrary preferential treatment on the basis of a product's brand rather than utility

Let's all be real with ourselves just a little. Brands *suck.* Like they really do.

Brands think they can charge whatever they want because they have a name and they have a logo.

> We are Lenovo. We have great keyboards. Pay us 20% more, and you can buy into our ecosystem.

> We are Microsoft. We have a Surface Laptop with no special features and we're going to charge you $1000 and only give you four gigs of ram.

> We are Intel, we do all of the innovation, so we're gonna like, stop innovating for a while, but choose us anyway.

That should be EVERY laptop. That's why I am still tempted by the Thinkpads, despite what Lenovo want to charge for them. People will always get sucked into brands.

For the most part, you get what you pay for. Pay $300 for a cheapo laptop from *any* brand and I personally promise that it won't be perfect. Pay $1000 and you start to get somewhere. Sixteen gigs of ram? Maybe not, but hey, you might get a decent SSD and an i5.

The worst part is that it still *works.* It's 2017, and people still pay for brands instead of anything real and tangible. We all know Supreme gear isn't made of anything magical. We all know that Yeezys aren't special. But it works. Consumerism has won.

So what gives. Materialism? Is that the magic answer? Maybe, but I think it's deeper than that. Here comes the quintessential Ralph postulating.

So, let's start with the fact that humans are social creatures. You've heard this one a thousand times already. We're obsessed with approval. We want to be revered as successful. These adverts work too well. They promise that all your friends will faun over your clothes, or your new phone or whatever. You show everyone that you're rich and successful.

Now I won't make it seem like this is profound or anything. I just like to reason through it all. Brandism is a war. Materialism is its ally. And right now, consumers everywhere are losing. If we don't buy stuff for what's actually in it, monopolies will always win by stealing our minds.

So next time you get into an argument about Apple vs. Android or Windows vs. Mac, just realize you're just the pawns in their corporate brainwashing ploy. You are all wage slaves arguing over who gets the biggest facade of freedom.

We have to fight corporations for our money's worth. Fighting each other acheives nothing.

:wq
