---
title: "Job"
date: 2017-03-05
toc: false
---

I now have this weird thing called a j-o-b. Some say that this makes you grow a distaste for the world and crack open the nearest copy of revolutionary literature. Some say you'll instantly be able to relate to all the struggles that adults face. I can't confirm either yet, but I do know you earn this weird green stuff that makes people give you food and clothes and stuff you need. That should be splendid.

In all seriousness, I have a job now. My interview went by like a stallion galloping along the beach, carried along by the swift ocean breeze, its hooves digging into the soft sand at the water's edge… I may be getting carried away, but my point stands: as I have said before, I take risks that I am qualified for. Some factors that have contributed to this preparedness include mock interviews, college interviews, personal statement writing in Composition class… wait, I may be sensing a trend here. Maybe school does prepare us for the real world more than we credit it for.

I'll be working as a tutor a Khan's Tutorial, which, as you'd expect, is run by a happy lot of passionate tutors. I felt kind of out of place initially, since they're all from South Asia and the Middle East, but the bright faces surrounding me completely shattered any doubts I had.

I've always wanted to be a teacher. They have shaped so much of my life. Teachers have always loved my admiration for learning as much as I have loved to learn. I think it's pretty naïve to assume that I will instantly reshape kids' lives everywhere, but I want to be someone they look forward to seeing again. Considering that I still have the vestigial remains of my introverted past left in me, that's something I want to work on moving forward, which means, telling stories and a hell of a lot more [Humans of Brooklyn Latin](https://www.facebook.com/HoTBLS/).

So that's it, really. I'm really excited to start working soon, and I'm optimistic to what the future brings.

:wq
