---
title: "Circles"
---

## The Infinite Beauty of Circles and Life

Circles are wonderful. They really are. All points are equidistant from the center, It's wonderfully democratic. Infinite members share equal importance.

The fire at PBC was another wonderful circle.

I knew what I wanted to say from the start. I was only waiting to try and make it coherent. Of course, that didn't work out in my favor in the end. I was egregiously incoherent.

Death scares me. A lot. I exist. I have an expiration date. I have to make everything worth it. There's nothing I can do to stop it. I can't afford to dwell on the past. I can't afford to spend a moment of my terminal existence not helping or learning or bettering the world. That's what's pushed me to change so much.

I exist. I wish I didn't know that. That simple fact. I... exist... Isn't that so bizarre? I'm a sentient collection of atoms called Ralph and I'm on a spinning rock in space. And the universe is going to expire too. Humans will be gone one day.

I was born too late to explore the earth. Too late to die for freedom. Too late to change the world like those before me.

I was born too soon to explore the stars. Too soon for digital immortality, too.

F**k.

I guess that's why I started to change. I learned to be vulnerable and emotional. I let myself trust. I started talking to people. I started Humans. I did everything I could to earn trust. Of course I got hurt. Of course other people have exploited that. But would I have it any other way? Heck no.

I've been a jerk in the past. A prick, a snob. I hate that. Sometimes I lay in bed and just cringe endlessly at what I've been in the past. I feel the mounting pressure of all of the shitty things I've done before. Sometimes, I let myself go. I forgive myself. Other times, it all comes crawling back.

I won't let myself be remembered for that. I want to do charity work. I want to better the world. I want so much for everyone else, and my biggest fear now, apart from eminent death, is not living life to the fullest.

I've stopped charging for photos. I've made the Latin review docs. I've proofread essays. I've tried being generous. My hope is that I've reduced stress just a little, at least, for everyone I know.

I want to start a cooperative. I'm not sure I can exist any other way. That's the end goal for me. I want to start a coop. I don't know much about how I'll get there. It might be around just to feed the homeless with our excess profits. Or I might teach some kids Latin. Or Linux. Or Photography, or editing, or anything like that. Any little thing I can do.

I can be a hopeless optimist in your eyes if you like, but what's the point in believing something if you don't actually act on it? If I want to help the world, I will, Somehow. I don't know where, how, or with whom yet. I don't know what the future holds, I just know that I have to make everything a little better for everyone. I have to do well in Uni, I have to get a good job to pay the bills, I have to reach a level where I have leverage enough to start something new and amazing. I would love to spend my off time helping anyone with anything.
p

That's a road-map of my life.

For now...

And then maybe the inevitable... I don't know where I'm taking this. Look, it boils down to this. I need to get my act together. I need to become so good at what I do that I can help people. I need to work hard now. Not merely for myself. I need to do this so that I can help people and make the world a better place. What happens to me in the end is irrelevant, I could say. If we got to be immortal, it wouldn't matter, I would still want to do all of this. I wold be able to help so many more people. So... well wish me luck.
