---
title: "Kulture"
date: 2017-08-11
---

## Snapshot: The Case for a Shared Identity

I have chosen to respond to this because I find the "African Americans are Appropriating African Culture" claim to be deeply problematic because it manufactures division and stratification. I'm writing as a Haitian American immigrant. I was born in Haiti, and moved to the US when I was just 3. My perspective is invariably limited. I speak Standard American English full time instead of African American Vernacular. I listen to Punk Rock instead of Rap. I don't fit your stereotype of an African American. If we're so marginalized, why implant further divisions? I am a black African American. If you believe that I’m not black enough to comment on this, I'll point to my slave ancestors and claim we need to have a long talk.

I’ve started off maybe too aggressive, I’ll try and tone it down a bit here on out. First off, I'd like to say that if we're talking about first generation immigrants who have arrived in the US a few generations ago, there is no argument. Regardless of what culture your parents come from, no one should tell you not to take part in your own culture. I am a Haitian American, and so my case might bring to light some nuances that don’t necessarily apply to everyone. Haitian culture is strongly influenced by African Culture. You can see this for yourself by searching for the two online and you’ll see the overlap. We have some of the same foods, a lot of the same clothes, we speak French, and the list goes on. If you want to say that I can’t partake in my Haitian culture just because I’m in America, I’d argue that there’s no substance to that claim. Your culture doesn't’t change when you set foot in another country.

If we shift the discussion to those of us who have been here since the times of slavery, the conversation becomes slightly different, but I still arrive at the same conclusion. Here's why:

Historians widely accept that African slave families were torn apart and rearranged to be with other slaves who were from different tribes to that they didn't speak the same language. That's one of many ways that African Cultures were systematically dismantled during the times of the Slave Trade. Others included banning certain religious ceremonies and replacing them with Christian ones. The way I learned it, the mixing of slaves from different tribes and local ethnicities was intended to culturally isolate them to prevent insurrection. If you don't speak the same language, how can you plan to overthrow your masters? Of course that failed in two ways. Slaves formed their own united identities, in fact, as a way to resist [assimilation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Slave_Community%23cite_note-11&sa=D&ust=1502508747701000&usg=AFQjCNH57CP5dk4UCDhAfDs2XlQYrH5OIw).

That's not to say that African Americans today should fully represent all of the cultures that they came from, of course they can't find and learn about every single tradition in their bloodline. When the slaves were faced with that same conundrum, the I'd say most African Americans don't know which exact cultures they came from. So why should they be expected to do so? If they try to reclaim an older identity, why should anyone stop them? 

I am a Haitian American. I am a first generation immigrant. Haitian and African culture overlap because well, Haiti is a country of Africans who were formerly slaves. Does that mean the entire country of Haiti is culturally appropriating because their African traditions are not being practiced on African soil? (You can even see halfway through the page [here](http://www.everyculture.com/Ge-It/Haiti.html) that Haitians wear face paint during in a carnival that precedes Lent, paint that might be associated with something tribal and native to Africa.) Through this, you see how cultural exchange has created unity through these people/ If you say no, that's a place where the "Black Americans are Appropriating African Culture" completely falls apart. If Haitians in Haiti are not appropriating African Culture, and Haiti is not in Africa, how can we accuse the same former slaves in America of appropriating the culture?

If I wear "African" clothes, am I appropriating culture? And if so, who am I appropriating? My parent's Haitian culture? Or my ancestor's African culture?

And there's one last nail I need to drive in this coffin. "African Culture" doesn't exist. Africa is an entire continent of people with discrete variations, or maybe continuous variations. There's bound to be some generic practices, but as it stands today, there is not one singular monolithic African culture. What matters is that people here who wear "African" clothes are not pointing at a far away culture, and saying, "Oh that's cool, let me take it and sell it for a profit." That’s what celebrities do. That’s what businesses do. Plain old people who buy “African” clothes from the local seamstress are not being driven by a selfish motive. Tribal markings are not just an attempt to look cool. They're an honest attempt to reclaim the culture and Identity that was taken away from us.

You could argue on and on about the exact places where Africans were sold off into slavery. You can argue on and on about what specific aspects of culture that African Americans are able to take today based on what cultures American slaves were taken from. But even here, there is some deep othering going on. The whole premise behind this supposed argument is that people from different parts of Africa are different and have different cultures. It ignores all Africans' shared history of exploitation. It ignores everything in common between everyone of African ancestry. What's so wrong with developing a unified culture? What's wrong with finally having something uniquely African to call our own?

On Haiti's flag, it says 'L'union fait la force.' It’s French for, "Unity creates strength." That was the founding motto of the nation I'm from, but I think this can be extended beyond the nation-state. I would like to dismantle any national barriers that divide people. There's too much shared history to ignore. There's too much we have in common to let us so easily be divided and conquered.

I wrote the following paragraphs and considered deleting them because they’re frankly disgusting and I wish I’d never wrote them. I chose to keep them in because they can teach us a little about how nationalism works.

Given the circumstances, I could be a right winger. I could argue that everyone was given the same opportunities as I had and that I performed to the level that can be expected from anyone like me. I could be a Haitian nationalist. I could say that Haitian and continental African immigrants are the only black people doing everything right. If I made it, why can't you make it too? It must be because you're not trying hard enough.

I could flaunt my pretty French last name. I could yell just fix your culture, that's your only problem. I could talk about the difference in [performance](https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2009/03/17/immigrant) between native-born black Americans and immigrant black Americans and their families. That proves that Native black American culture is what's broken and it's your fault and you need to fix it. This is a filthy way of thinking and I deeply despise the thought that anyone could think like this, but there are people that do. If we allow othering and stratification to take hold, I can’t imagine a more depressing end.

In conclusion, I reject the claim that we should discriminate between native-born and immigrant African Americans when talking about what traditions African Americans can emulate, practice, or put a spin on. I think it is justified for all African Americans to regain some of their lost culture and traditions. I think doing so unifies all African Americans and prevents stratification and othering. Please don’t get me wrong: I am deeply against identitarianism, and if I had it my way, everyone should be able to partake in any culture as long as they cited said culture, did so respectfully, and aren’t using it to make a profit, but that’s another topic for another day.

I don't want this to be the end of the conversation. I may have made some mistakes in reasoning. I'm biased because of my agenda to establish unity through common culture. I hope I can spur fruitful and productive thought through this article. I don’t want to claim anything too strongly. If I said something that's incorrect or improperly reasoned, I would like to be corrected and educated. Maybe I'm missing a critical piece of information that will change my perspective. I call this a “Snapshot” for a reason. I want to document my views over time, share them with others, and develop a more holistic view of the world for both myself and others. I don't want to live in an echo chamber. If you disagree, I want to know why.
